# NYC_TLC_Trips_Record
New York City or NYC, is the most populous city in the United States. New York City comprises five boroughs. The five boroughs are Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx, and Staten Island. New York City is a global city and a cultural, financial, high-tech, entertainment and media center. As one of the most densely populated cities in the United States, New Yorkers are relying on various modes of transportation for their daily activities. Among the most popular and widely used options for getting around the city is the taxi. These taxis are regulated and overseen by the NYC Taxi and Limousine Commission (TLC). The TLC is a city agency, **owned and operated by the government of New York City**. Its main focus is on traditional taxis (yellow cabs) as well as various for-hire vehicle services, including rideshare service. This time we will discuss about the Yellow Taxi.

The yellow taxi, often referred to as the "yellow cab," is an iconic symbol of New York City and is recognized worldwide as a symbol of the city's vibrant culture, energy, and urban lifestyle. **Yellow taxis are the only vehicles that are allowed to pick passengers up in response to a street hail across NYC**. But to legally operate a yellow cab in NYC, a driver must own a **medallion** issued by the TLC.

The taxi industry is starting to recover since the COVID pandemic. Drivers are working and striving to meet their needs. Nowadays, there are more Uber and Lyft vehicles compared to yellow taxis. With regulations constantly changing, numerous additional fees, and especially with the presence of ridesharing like Uber and Lyft, taxi drivers as workers and community are actually facing a challenging situation. Taxi drivers are fighting for their place within the industry. **The latest news is that the Metropolitan Tax Authority (MTA) will raise the congestion surcharges from the previous $2.5 to $9-$23 per trips starting in the spring of 2024.**

In this situation, drivers only can rely on TLC as a regulator, overseer and goverment agency to maintain competitiveness of the iconic symbol of NYC and ensure the sustanaibility both of the industry and the drivers. As TLC strategic plan in 2022 (https://www.nyc.gov/assets/tlc/downloads/pdf/taxi_strategic_plan_2022.pdf) Section 8 : Improving the Driver Experience, noted that **"Drivers are the core of the Taxi industry but they have reported difficult in attracting and maintaining the competitiveness of labor market. TLC focuses on improving the Driver experience in order to make driving a Taxi a more desirable livelihood and thus ensure a stable and sustainable Taxi industry."** 

**We will analyze a dataset from NYC Yellow Taxi Trips Record. The purpose of this analysis is to understand more about NYC yellow taxi activities such as which areas are the busiest, at what time or day it is the busiest, and which area is more generous in terms of tipping. In addition, this analysis will give some recommendations that might improve taxi driver’s income.**
